---
date: 2014-01-20
author: kpiwko
---
 
p. For a long time we have struggled with using tools that are not easily available from the Java world. Things like the Android SDK, the PhantomJS driver binary, the chromedriver server binary, containers downloaded via complicated Maven commands and similar blobs. 

p. While it is possible to download all this manually, we still need to configure the build system and set paths. All that extra work clutters the first time user experience with Arquillian.
 
h3. Introducing: Arquillian Spacelift

p. Therefore, we're "resurrecting a proposal":https://community.jboss.org/thread/235858 for a native platform extension, that could be consumed by extension creators. The overall goal is to create a solid platform that can handle all this extra cruft based on a metadata model.
 
h4. Extension Requirements

* should be able to get an archive/binary from any external location
* should be able to cache archive/binary using maven coordinates in local repository, acting as cache
* should be able to handle different binaries per platform
* should be able to execute code after installation and before installation
* should be able to cache results - only first execution needs to do that
* should have access to arquillian.xml descriptor
* should be externally configurable (via arquillian.xml) - selected metadata could be overridden in arquillian.xml
* must log it's progress, so it does not look stuck
* must be able to configure the workspace - the directory where platform related bits are extracted - so for instance Android SDK can be shared per multiple jobs

p. Based on these requirements we're proud to welcome the Arquillian Spacelift extension as part of the Arquillian family. Alpha1 is out now, but follow this space for more as we move forward. 

p. We hope that you'll enjoy this new extension and look forward to hear your feedback in the "community forums":#{site.project_space}. 

p. Interested in helping out? Come by the "community development forums":#{site.dev_forum}.
