---
date: 2013-06-20
author: lfryc
---

Warp Alpha3 is a last stop to Beta releases which brings mainly enhancements and bug fixes, but also a pretty new documentation:

h3. Documentation Draft

Even though a "documentation draft":https://github.com/lfryc/arquillian.github.com/blob/warp-docs/docs/warp.adoc#architecture isn't published yet to the Arquillian site, it is already almost completed.

This documentation describes where is "Warp's place in a space of integration testing":https://github.com/lfryc/arquillian.github.com/blob/warp-docs/docs/warp.adoc#what-is-warp, how to "start with Warp in your project":https://github.com/lfryc/arquillian.github.com/blob/warp-docs/docs/warp.adoc#how-to-use-warp, what are features supported by "Warp API":https://github.com/lfryc/arquillian.github.com/blob/warp-docs/docs/warp.adoc#warp-api and few words about "debugging tests":https://github.com/lfryc/arquillian.github.com/blob/warp-docs/docs/warp.adoc#debugging-warp and an "extension architecture":https://github.com/lfryc/arquillian.github.com/blob/warp-docs/docs/warp.adoc#architecture.

h3. Highlighted Enhancements


- <i class="icon-star"></i> Jacoco Support :=
Thanks to "Aris Tzoumas":https://github.com/atzoum, Warp users can now enjoy coverage reporting using @arquillian-extension-jacoco@. I must say this contribution was wider than that since it enabled lot of other features. =:

- <i class="icon-star"></i> Meaningful Reporting :=
The concepts Warp builds upon aren't really complex, however the implementation needs to make sure that users understand when something breaks. Warp tries to report you as much contextual information
as needed to overcome common issues together with a hint how to resolve an issue.

We also hope to improve reporting even more, but here we rely on you - don't hesitate to report us when your experience with Warp isn't as smooth as it should be. =:

- <i class="icon-star"></i> JSF Managed Beans Injection :=
You can now inject any managed artifact through EL expressions using standard @ManagedProperty@ annotation:

bc(prettify).. @ManagedProperty("#{facesContext.application}") Application application;

@ManagedProperty("#{myBean}") SomeFacesBean myBean;

=:

h3. SPI enhancements

- <i class="icon-star"></i> Independent Bi-directional Communication :=
During an @Alpha3@ development we have identified many common problems which came down to basics that @Alpha2@ was built upon: piggy-backing on HTTP request/response and wrapping @HttpServletResponse@.

In order to overcome those problems, Warp now leverages an internal SPI of bi-directional direct communication between test and server (originally created by Aris as a way to support Jacoco).

This is fundamental change since it change a way how Warp transfers inspections and it also opens completely new possibilities by creating a tigher relationship between a test and a server. =:

h3. Important Bug Fixes

- <i class="icon-star"></i> Do not interferre with non-Warp tests :=
Warp Alpha2 wasn't really good citizen and it tried to hook into all tests even though they weren't annotated by @@WarpTest@. Those problems should be addressed now. =:

h3. Enjoy the Release

Alpha3 comes with lot of enhancements which improves experience with an extension, but it also brings some improvements which were needed to support rising "REST":https://community.jboss.org/thread/213247 and "SeamTest":http://docs.jboss.org/seam/2.0.1.GA/reference/en/html/testing.html migration layer extensions driven by "Jakub Narloch":https://github.com/jmnarloch/ and "Marek Schmidt":https://github.com/maschmid.

Let us know if we can smoothly enter a Beta releases train!