---
---

We're happy to announce the first release of the Arquillian Android extension.

Arquillian Android extension allows you to use Android SDK in Arquillian tests. Most notably, it allows you to start an Android Virtual device or to connect to a real device. A part of Android Extension for Arquillian is Android Drone Extension. This extension allows you to easily configure WebDriver based tests which will be executed directly in emulator device.

When testing your application, you can then easily migrate between desktop and mobile UI or develop a mobile specific tests.

h4. How to use it?

p. First, download Android SDK from http://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html and point ANDROID_HOME system variable to directory
where you extracted it. You should also update it via running `android` and navigating in the GUI.

p. Next, add Android extension to dependencies. This depchain will add both Arquillian Android and Android Drone extensions.

bc(prettify).. <dependency>
    <groupId>org.jboss.arquillian.extension</groupId>
    <artifactId>arquillian-android-depchain</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0.Alpha1-SNAPSHOT</version>
    <type>pom</type>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>

p. _Note: Make sure you have *NOT* Arquillian Drone Selenium Server on the classpath, as it will collide
unless configured to a different port. If you can remove it from classpath, you should disable it in @arquillian.xml@_

bc(prettify).. <extension qualifier="selenium-server">
    <!-- this must be skipped, we run /wd/hub on emulator -->
    <property name="skip">true</property>
</extension>

p. Download Android Server APK to be installed to you mobile device from http://code.google.com/p/selenium/downloads/list
Use *android-server-2.6.0.apk* for devices including Android 2.3.4, latest version for Android 3.0 and newer. 

p. Set up WebDriver in arquillian.xml

bc(prettify).. <extension qualifier="webdriver">
    <!-- this makes WebDriver connect hub on Android device -->
    <property name="remoteAddress">http://localhost:14444/wd/hub</property>
</extension>

p. Set up Android in arquillian.xml

bc(prettify).. <extension qualifier="android">
    <!-- this is optional, can be set via ANDROID_HOME property -->
    <property name="home">/home/kpiwko/apps/android-sdk-linux_x86</property>
    <!-- Nexus S -->
    <!-- <property name="serialId">3233E8EDB21700EC</property>-->

    <property name="verbose">true</property>
    <property name="apiLevel">13</property>
    <property name="avdName">SnapshotEnabled</property>
    <property name="emulatorBootupTimeoutInSeconds">180</property>
</extension>

p. Properties explained, required in *bold*:

* *home* - Android SDK home, can be ommited if set via @ANDROID_HOME@ property
* *avdName* - name of the Android Virtual Device. It will be either created or reused
* apiLevel - (10) denotates API level, use @android list target@ to get more variants
* serialId - replaces avdName if set and available, represents a real device. Use @adb devics@ to get the list
* skip - (false) skip execution
* verbose - (false) be verbose
* force - (false) force emulator recreationg
* sdSize - (128M) SD card size for emulator 
* emulatorBootupTimeoutInSeconds - (180) maximal time to get emulator started, use Snapshot enabled device if it takes too long
* emulatorOptions - emulator options

p. Emulators are created by default in @${basedir}/${avdName}@.

p. Set up Android Drone in arquillian.xml

bc(prettify).. <extension qualifier="android-drone">
    <property name="androidServerApk">android-server-2.16.apk</property>
</extension> 

p. Properties explained, required in *bold*:

* *androidServerApk* - path to the Android Server APK you've downloaded
* skip - (false) skip execution
* verbose - (false) be verbose
* webdriverPortHost - (14444) port on Host connected with port on device
* webdriverPortGuest - (8080) port on Guest connected with port on Host

Big thanks go to Jan Papousek (@papousek) for improving and testing this release!
