---
date: 2017-01-06
---

Just before Christmas we have shipped new version of Arquillian Core. This is not a major release but besides typical dependency updates it comes with few a important improvements we wanted to share with you.

h3. Highlights in this release

- <i class="icon-star"></i> Improved support for injection in @JUnit @Rules@ :=

In the previous version we provided initial support for injection in @JUnit @Rules@. It was limited to client side execution but now we support in-container part of test execution as well. This means you can have custom rules having access to injectable components when running in-container tests (both from your application as well as those provided by Arquillian).

If you want to see it in action, we created examples in the "showcase project":https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-showcase/tree/1280bc2d59478105fdfb17e7baf94706ecabee66/junit-rules.

=:

- <i class="icon-star"></i> Synthetic bridge methods (JDK 8 issue) :=

p. Some of the extensions compiled using JDK 6 can manifest "JDK 8 problem":http://bugs.java.com/view_bug.do?bug_id=6695379. This might result with @ClassCastExceptions@ which might be very confusing for the user. We have provided "fix for it":https://issues.jboss.org/browse/ARQ-2042 in this release.

=:

- <i class="icon-star"></i> Combining multiple errors :=

When test fails with multiple errors (as it happens in "Arquillian Algeron verification":/blog/2017/01/05/arquillian-algeron-1-0-0-Alpha5/ for instance) Arquillian will provide combined exception having all the faults captured.

=: