---
date: 2015-03-19
author: smiklosovic
---

We are proud to announce the first final release of Arquillian Droidium component. There were lot of alpha releases where we were polishing stability and API for developers.
 
Arquillian Droidium is its simplicity the container for Android, both Android emulators and physical devices. Arquillian Droidium makes testing of your Android application, when it comes to functional testing, a breeze.
 
The biggest strength of Arquillian Droidium lays in its simplicity. Droidium is very smart in hiding unnecessary boiler plate code you have to set up every time. Droidium tests are very clean, easy to read and maintain. You can focus purely on your testing logic.
 
"Arquillian Droidium":https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-droidium/blob/master/droidium-container/README.adoc consists of two core extensions. The first one implements Android container as such, deployment of APKs to your device, starting, stopping and connecting to your Android devices and so one. The second core extension, Droidium Native extension, brings functional testing to your mobile environment.
 
"Functional testing":https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-droidium/tree/master/droidium-native of Android devices is enabled by using the Selendroid libraries. Droidium integrates seamlessly with "Arquillian Graphene":/modules/graphene-extension/ and "Arquillian Drone":/modules/drone-extension/ extensions to deliver first class on-steroids Selenium testing experience in mobile environments. 
 
Arquillian Droidium is not afraid of other container adapters on its classpath at all. You are able to run your Arquillian tests with Android device as well as with your ordinary Java EE container simultaneously. This brings "interesting testing scenarios":https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-droidium/blob/master/tests/droidium-multiple-containers-01/src/test/java/org/arquillian/droidium/showcase/multiple/test01/MultipleContainersTestCase.java into play where you can deploy your backend Java EE application into ordinary container and you can test your Android APK which communicates with your Java EE backend.
 
But there is more! Not only you can mix these containers together, you can run more Android containers concurrently which brings even more "interesting testing scenarios":https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-droidium/blob/master/tests/droidium-multiple-androids-02/src/test/java/org/arquillian/droidium/showcase/multiple/test02/MultipleContainersTestCase.java, where you can test the communication between Android devices very easily.
 
Arquillian Droidium is able to record your tests as well. You can take "screenshots":https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-droidium/tree/master/droidium-screenshooter of your Android device along the test execution and these screenshots will be persisted for further inspection in a very concise Arquillian report e.g. as an HTML file.
 
But we have not stopped with screenshots. You can even "take videos":https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-droidium/tree/master/droidium-recorder of your Android tests directly in the test class via the very simple recorder API.
 