---
---
Graphene is joining rest of the Arquillian party, building on top of Arquillian testing platform Drone extension, both which "reached their first stable version yesterday":/blog/2012/04/10/arquillian-first-stable-release/.

h3. The Mission

"Arquillian Graphene":/modules/graphene-extension focuses on *making real-browser automation a breeze*.

The project was started to address simplification of covering AJAX-enabled applications with browser automation tests.

While Selenium project is focusing on unified API, integration with variety of browsers, Graphene project is addressing the real-world testing challenges:

* rapid development
** straight-forward
** readable API
** fast turnaround
* object-oriented
** type-safe API
** dependency injection of thread-local context
* instabilities and speed of execution in continuous integration
** jQuery selectors
** request guards

h3. Availability

The Graphene bits are available in "JBoss Community artifact repository":https://repository.jboss.org/nexus, dual-licensed under LGPL v2.1 (backward-compatibility) and ASL v2.0 (which uses rest of the Arquillian sub-projects).

For those who are already using Graphene in a Maven project, you can simply update the version to @1.0.0.Final@.

You can start with the tests using our "Getting Started with the JBoss Maven repository guide":https://docs.jboss.org/author/display/ARQGRA/Getting+Started.

h3. The Future

Right now we are heavily working on making the new version of Graphene 2 on the road.

Selenium 2 with its WebDriver API made huge progress with API *accessibility and readability*. It's already pleasure to work with this API in Java world.

However still there are *many shortcomings we are going to address with Graphene 2*, building on top of concepts brought in Graphene 1 and adding new features, which opens world of new possibilities:

* dependency injection of thread-local context
* fast development turnaround
* cross-cutting concerns (command interception)
* request guards
* page extensions
* component objects
** extension of page objects concept
* JavaScript test execution from within Selenium test

If you enjoy testing and you are unsatisfied with the current browser automation tooling, it's *perfect time* to step in and help us to *bring the future*!

h3. Project Links

* "Home page":https://community.jboss.org/wiki/ArquillianGraphene
* "Source code":https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-graphene
* "Documentation":https://docs.jboss.org/author/display/ARQGRA/Home
* "Issue tracker":https://issues.jboss.org/browse/ARQGRA
