---
date: 2017-12-18
author: lordofthejars
---

p. We are delighted to announce a new version of Arquillian Cube 1.13.0 with a bunch of awesome features related to Docker and bug fixes.

p(important). %*_Important change_*: One of the important fixes we introduced is about handlings multiple values for @env.dependencies@ and @wait.for.service.list@. We have changed the separation char from white-space to comma-separated, so to migrate to a new version, just add a comma instead of white space in the property to separate each of the element.%

h3. What's new

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> **Allow parallelization of networks**

p. Now you can use the star pattern for networks. It works the same as the container star pattern.

bc(prettify).. <property name="dockerContainers">
     networks:
       testnetwork*:
         driver: bridge
     tomcat*:
       image: tutum/tomcat:8.0
      portBindings: [8080/tcp]
       networkMode: testnetwork*
     ping*:
       image: jonmorehouse/ping-pong
       exposedPorts: [8089/tcp]
       networks:
         - testnetwork*
</property>

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> **Allow docker configuration to be loaded from the classpath**

p. Currently Docker definition files were loaded from file (relative or absolute). In this version, @dockerContainersResource@ where you can specify a file containing the container definitions on the Java classpath.

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> **Use comma to separate multiple values in arquillian.xml**

p. @env.dependencies@ or @wait.for.service.list@ properties have changed the separation char from white-space to comma-separated. To migrate to new version, just add a comma instead of white space in the property to separate each of the element.

p. Many thanks to "Martin Spisiak":https://github.com/spisiakm "Aleš Justin":https://github.com/alesj and "Ivan Kelly":https://github.com/ivankelly for their help.
