---
date: 2017-04-06
author: lordofthejars
---

p. New version of Arquillian Cube 1.1.0 has been released with new features and few bug fixes.

h3. What's new

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> **Possibility for other custom strategies besides @customAwaitStrategy@**

p. BeforeStop events can be very restrictive at times. Now you can write your own @BeforeStop@ logic. To implement a custom before stop logic, you need to create a class implementing @org.arquillian.cube.spi.beforeStop.BeforeStopAction@ and registering it on cube definition.

bc(prettify).. public class CustomBeforeStopActionImpl implements BeforeStopAction {
 
   private DockerClientExecutor dockerClientExecutor;
   private String containerID;
 
   @Override
   public void doBeforeStop() {
     //Logic
  }
}

p. Registration of previous action.

bc(prettify).. tomcat:
   image: tutum/tomcat:7.0
   beforeStop:
    - customBeforeStopAction:
      strategy: org.arquillian.cube.docker.impl.beforeStop.CustomBeforeStopActionImpl

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> **Add possibility to ignore docker-compose location / (and default ones)**

p. New cube property has been added to disable the cube definitions. This is useful if you are using container objects for testing and you've got a @docker-compose@ on default locations and you won't to be used by cube.

bc(prettify).. <extension qualifier="docker">
   <property name="ignoreContainersDefinition">true</property>
</extension>

p. By default its value is false.

Many thanks to "James Netherton":https://github.com/jamesnetherton and "jelmew":https://github.com/jelmew for their help.