---
date: 2012-10-24
---
Arquillian Drone reaches 1.1.0.Final. We've introduced new features while still preserving backwards compatibility with 1.0.0.Final. 
We can expect much simpler way how to configure Drone as well as better support for Opera and iOS devices.

h3(highlights). Let me enumerate the most significant changes that happened in Drone since 1.0.0.Final:  

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> Browser capabilities instead of @implementationClass@ and direct capability mapping. Think of any WebDriver capability, such as @opera.no_restart@ or @acceptSSLCerts@, you can now specify them directly in @arquillian.xml@:

div(filename). arquillian.xml
bc(prettify).. <extension qualifier="webdriver">
    <property name="browserCapabilities">opera</property>
    <property name="opera.no_restart">true</property>
    <property name="acceptSSLCerts">false</property>
</extension>

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> Support for reusable browsers. Reusable browsers stay connected even if you finish the tests. This will speed up turnaroud when developing the application. Reusable browsers are based on top of remote browsers, so you'll need Selenium Hub (run *selenium-server-standalone-2.25.0.jar*) running during your tests. This is how you enable them (@remoteAddress@ is optional, default value is listed here):

div(filename). arquillian.xml
bc(prettify).. <extension qualifier="webdriver">
    <property name="browserCapabilities">chrome</property>
    <property name="remoteReusable">true</property>
    <property name="remoteAddress">http://localhost:4444/wd/hub</property>
</extension>

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> Support for Opera browser 
p. <i class="icon-star"></i> Deprecated Arquillian Drone system properties configuration in favor of the system properties configuration provided by Arquillian Core. The old style of system properties still work, but using them will produce warnings in the log and will be removed completely in a later version. Now use @arq.extension.extensionName.propertyName@ to override a value from arquillian.xml file.

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> Running tests on iOS devices.

I'd like to thank everybody from the community eagerly adopting new releases, discovering bugs and providing bugfixes. _You guys are awesome!_
 
We hope that you'll enjoy the improvements. We look forward to hear your feedback in the "community forums":#{site.project_space}.
