---
date: 2013-09-12
author: lfryc
---

This is the first and probably also the last Beta release. We've focused on stabilization and documentation.

h3(highlights). Highlighted Changes

- <i class="icon-star"></i> Stabilization of API := 
In Beta1, we have stabilized the API and removed all the deprecated parts from Alpha5. The API is now considered final and there should be no more changes to it on the way to the Final release.
=:

- <i class="icon-star"></i> Getting Started Guide := 
Thanks to the amazing effort of "Juraj Húska":https://github.com/jhuska, we were able to rewrite the original "Functional Testing using Drone":/guides/functional_testing_using_graphene/ guide to use Graphene 2. Even though it is targetting beginners of the Selenium WebDriver API, it will teache you best practices so you can write maintainable and efficient functional tests from day one.
=:

- <i class="icon-star"></i> Reference Documentation := 
The "Reference Documentation":https://docs.jboss.org/author/display/ARQGRA2/Home was completed so that it reflects all features which are part of Graphene 2.0.
=:

- <i class="icon-star"></i> JavaDoc for API and SPI Available Online := 
We have finalized documentation of Java classes for "API":https://repository.jboss.org/nexus/service/local/repositories/releases/archive/org/jboss/arquillian/graphene/graphene-webdriver-api/2.0.0.Beta1/graphene-webdriver-api-2.0.0.Beta1-javadoc.jar/!/index.html and "SPI":https://repository.jboss.org/nexus/service/local/repositories/releases/archive/org/jboss/arquillian/graphene/graphene-webdriver-spi/2.0.0.Beta1/graphene-webdriver-spi-2.0.0.Beta1-javadoc.jar/!/index.html and made them available online. You can bookmark those links since they won't change in upcoming stable Graphene releases!
=:

p(important). %A critical error with @@Location@ was found after the release of Beta1. See "ARQGRA-373":https://issues.jboss.org/browse/ARQGRA-373 for more information. Expect a new release soon.%

h3. Final is due soon!

We are now pretty much done, and unless some serious issues or interoperability problems are identified in the community, we'll release a candidate for Final release in a week, followed by a @2.0.0.Final@ shortly.

Be sure to check out the @Beta@ release, so we can avoid hitting any regressions once we get Final!
