---
---
Arquillian Persistence Extension is back on the release train and the future plan is stronger than ever. The Alpha6 release brings a lot of improvements and fixes thanks to invaluable feedback from the community. 

Big thanks go to Marco Cella, Matti Linnanvuori, Bernard Łabno, Tiago Wanke Marques, Karsten Ohme, Vineet Reynolds, Cyrill Ruettimann, Bryan Saunders, Anton Shaykin, Nicolas-Xavier Vanderlinden and Noah White for their feedback which led us to fix some minor annoyances and shortcomings of APE. We are proud of the vibrant and active community around Arquillian!

h3(highlights). Some of the highlights in this release

<i class="icon-star"></i> Transaction support has been replaced with "Transaction Extension":http://arquillian.org/modules/transaction-extension/. By default the JTA implementation is included. The only thing you will need to change in your tests is the import sttement for the @@Transactional@ annotation. From now on it's under @org.jboss.arquillian.transaction.api.annotation@.

<i class="icon-star"></i> Support for row ordering when comparing datasets. When using Generated ID's for instance, such as UUID's, the rows need to be sorted in order for the DbUnit comparison to pass. If they are not ordered, then the assertion is unreliable. 

<i class="icon-star"></i> Improved error reporting, including rows comparision and misconfigured entries.

<i class="icon-star"></i> DTD support for flat XML data sets (DBUnit feature).

<i class="icon-star"></i> Proper support for multiple line SQL scripts with comments (ANSI SQL compliant)

p. We've also extended our test suite by adding Apache Derby to our continuous integration pipeline.

p(important). %*_Important change_*: We re-groupped configuration entries @arquillian.xml@ giving them more qualifiers:
	_persistence_ - for all basic settings 
	_persistence-dbunit_ - for DBUnit specific configuration
	_persistence-script_ - for SQL related things
Please refer to our "confluence documentation":https://docs.jboss.org/author/display/ARQ/Persistence#Persistence-Additionalconfiguration for detailed description.%

We look forward to hearing your feedback about this release in the "community forums":#{site.project_space}!
