---
date: 2012-09-11
---
After some thought we realized that the current options for configuration (and implementation for that matter) were too complicated. While @browserCapabilities@ allowed you to ignore the implementing class of WebDriver, you were still required to remember how to set up various capabilities.

We dropped the capability configuration support as you know it from CR1 and CR2 and replaced it with something much easier to use. You can now set up the capabilities directly as they come from WebDriver. 

h3(highlights). Some of the highlights in this release

<i class="icon-star"></i> Direct capability mapping. Think of any WebDriver capability, such as @opera.no_restart@ or @acceptSSLCerts@, you can now specify them directly in @arquillian.xml@:

div(filename). arquillian.xml

bc(prettify).. <extension qualifier="webdriver">
    <property name="browserCapabilities">firefox</property>
    <property name="opera.no_restart">true</property>
    <property name="acceptSSLCerts">false</property>
</extension>

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> Deprecated Arquillian Drone system properties configuration in favor of the system properties configuration provided by Arquillian Core. The old style of system properties still work, but using them will produce warnings in the log and will be removed completely in a later version.

In the previous @arquilian.xml@ snippet, @browserCapabilities@ would map to @arquillian.webdriver.browser.capabilities@. The correct way to override this property is now @arq.extension.webdriver.browserCapabilities@. With the new properties handling you can also provide the properties in a file by spcifying the file name in the @arquillian.properties@ system property.

The same apply to the qualifiers support. Given the following @arquillian.xml@ snippet you would now use @arq.extension.webdriver-myqualifier.browserCapabilities@ instead of the legacy @arquillian.webdriver.myqualifier.browser.capabilities@:

div(filename). arquillian.xml

bc(prettify).. <extension qualifier="webdriver-myqualifier">
    <property name="browserCapabilities">chrome</property>
</extension>

p. We hope that this will make Arquillian Drone easier to use, especially for people who have already tried to use @browserCapabilities@.

We look forward to hearing your feedback about this release in the "community forums":#{site.project_space}!
