---
date: 2015-04-08
author: aslakknutsen
---

h3(highlights). What's included in the Alpha5 release?

- <i class="icon-star"></i> New CubeController APIs := 

The @CubeController@ API got a bit of an upgrade and you can now programtically do things like copy files and check internal states.

* Copy files from Container

bc(prettify). void copyFileDirectoryFromContainer(String cubeId, String from, String to)

* See changes to the filesystem

bc(prettify). List<ChangeLog> changesOnFilesystem(String cubeId);


* Output running Container processes

bc(prettify). TopContainer top(String cubeId);

* Copy log files

bc(prettify). void copyLog(String cubeId, boolean follow, boolean stdout, boolean stderr, boolean timestamps, int tail, OutputStream outputStream);

=:


- <i class="icon-star"></i> New external configuration file := 

The configuration property @dockerContainers@ or @dockerContainersFile@ can now be replaced by simply having a file on classpath called @cube@. If the file exists and the @dockerContainersX@ configuration options are not set then this file will be read instead. The format of the content of the file is still the same.

=:


- <i class="icon-star"></i> Default await strategy changed := 

The default await strategy has up until now been @NativeAwaitStrategy@ which use the @Docker@ API to see if the container has started or not. This highly depends on the container and how it's written. 

In Alpha5 the default strategy has changed to use @PollingAwaitStrategy@ with the @ss@ option. Now Cube will not determine the container started until all confiugred ports are available. The check is done from inside the container to avoid any false positives of rerouted port being opened before bound on the target container.

=:
