---
layout: post
date: 2017-12-20
author: dipak-pawar
title: Welcome JUnit Rules for Arquillian
---

We have released yet another version of Arquillian Core. This time with one new feature.

h3. What's new?

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> **JUnit Rules For Arquillian**

p. If you want to use Arquillian Testing Platform with other JUnit Runner, you can now use JUnit Rules - @ArquillianTestClass@ and @ArquillianTest@ - and happily let Arquillian do the heavy lifting for your tests.

p. To get the similar functionality what the @@RunWith(Arquillian.class)@ is offering you should require both rules i.e. @ArquillianTestClass@ and @ArquillianTest@.

bc(prettify).. @ClassRule
 public static ArquillianTestClass arquillianTestClass = new ArquillianTestClass();

 @Rule
 public ArquillianTest arquillianTest = new ArquillianTest();

 @Deployment
 public static JavaArchive createDeployment() {
     return ShrinkWrap.create(JavaArchive.class)
         .addClass(Greeter.class)
         .addAsManifestResource(EmptyAsset.INSTANCE, "beans.xml");
 }

 @Inject
 Greeter greeter;

 @Test
 public void should_greet_earthlings() throws Exception {
     String name = "Earthlings";
     Assert.assertEquals("Hello, " + name, greeter.greet(name));
 }

p. In order to use any other JUnit Class or Method Rule with @ArquillianClassTest@ or @ArquillianTest@ rule, you have to use it with @RuleChain@ having new methods defined as outer rules. e.g.
  
bc(prettify).. @Rule
public MethodRule testWatchman = MethodRuleChain.outer(new ArquillianTest().around(new TestWatchman());

p. Arquillian is not enforcing user to define both rules as implementations of @MethodRuleChain@ is different for different users. JUnit doesn't provide @MethodRuleChain@ similar to the @RuleChain@, as we don't know your implementation of @MethodRuleChain@, we can't check if your MethodRuleChain has @ArquillianTest@ rule defined.

p. Arquillian is providing @MethodRuleChain@ which is RuleChain for method rules. Feel free to use it.

p. Do you want to play around with it?

Take a look into following examples:
* https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-cube/pull/913/files
* https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-graphene/pull/176/files
