---
date: 2012-10-18
---

The _Portal_ extension for Arquillian brings testing into the world of Portlets!

h3(highlights). Some of the highlights in this release

<i class="icon-star"></i> URL injection of portlets by name. @@PortalURL@ now supports defining the names of the portlets that you want rendered on the page of the injected URL. You can either specify a single portlet name, multiple, or leave it empty and it will load all portlets defined within @portlets.xml@ onto the page. Injecting a URL of a portlet page with the @MyPortlet@ portlet present is done by:

div(filename). MyTest.java

bc(prettify).. @ArquillianResource
@PortalURL("MyPortlet")
URL portletPage;

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> Annotation for marking portlet tests. @@PortalTest@ now represents a marker on a test class that signifies to _Portal_ extension implementations that a portlet test is being invoked. This enables for augmenting the test deployment with whatever information is needed for particular portlet containers to enable a portlet to be tested. It has the added benefit of decoupling a test needing to inject a @@PortalURL@ if the tests don't require a URL to the portlet page.

p. Currently there are two implementations of this extension for use with "Pluto":https://github.com/jbossportletbridge/pluto-testing and "GateIn":https://github.com/jbossportletbridge/gatein-testing portal containers.

For examples on how to use these extensions with their respective portal containers, you can take a look at the "testsuite":https://github.com/jbossportletbridge/jbossportletbridge/tree/master/testsuites of JBoss Portlet Bridge.

We look forward to hearing your feedback about this release in the "community forums":#{site.project_space}!
