---
---

JUnit was starting to feel lonely, so we cut 1.1.4.Final to show it some love.

h3. What's fixed in 1.1.4.Final?

- <i class="icon-star"></i> org.junit.Assume :=
When running JUnit test cases in a Remote container the result of Assume was reported incorrectly as _Passed_ when evaluated on the client side. This is now fixed and the client side should show _Skipped_ as with any other JUnit test.

bc(prettify).. @Test
public void should() throws Exception {
   Assume.assumeFalse(false);
}
=:

- <i class="icon-star"></i> org.junit.Test(timeout) :=
JUnit supports the notion of setting a timeout on a Test method to allow JUnit to kill the execution and report it as _Failed_ if it takes too long. Support for this was added in Arquillian Core 1.0.2.Final, but the implementation had some unforeseen consequences and was removed in 1.1.3.Final. We're now happy to report this has been reintroduced in 1.1.4.Final. ..the support for timeout that is, not the unforeseen consequence... ;)

bc(prettify).. @Test(timeout = 1000)
public void should() throws Exception {
   // potential long execution
}
=:

- <i class="icon-star"></i> Upgraded to ShrinkWrap 1.2.2 :=
Arquillian-BOM now expose ShrinkWrap 1.2.2 by default.

ShrinkWrap 1.2.2 is a minor bug fix release. See the "release notes":/blog/2014/03/25/shrinkwrap-1-2-2/ for more information.
=:

- <i class="icon-star"></i> Upgraded to ShrinkWrap Resolver 2.1.0 :=
Arquillian-BOM now expose ShrinkWrap Resolver 2.1.0 by default.

The new ShrinkWrap Resolver version adds support for:

* Maven > 3.1.0
* Adding repositories programmatically

You can read more about the release in the "release notes":/blog/2014/03/24/resolver-2-1-0/.
=:
