---
date: 2014-02-12
author: asotobu
---

Aliens are conquering @Undertow@.

@Undertow@ is a flexible performant web server written in java, providing both blocking and non-blocking API’s based on NIO.

This extension enables us writing @Arquillian@ tests for @Undertow@. 

To simplify the development of tests on @Undertow@ we have created two @Shrinkwrap@ resolvers:

* Embedded Servlet Deployment
* Non-blocking handler

h1. Embedded Servlet Deployment

When you want to deploy a servlet/s inside @Undertow@, you must create a _DeploymentInfo_ class and provide all the required information. 
For this reason @Arquillian-Container-Undertow@ provides a @Shrinkwrap@ resolver named @UndertowWebArchive@.


div(filename). UndertowServletTest.java

bc(prettify)..
@Deployment(testable = false)
public static Archive<WebArchive> createDeployment() {
	return ShrinkWrap.create(UndertowWebArchive.class).from(
			deployment()
			.setContextPath("/myapp")
			.setDeploymentName("test.war")
			.setClassLoader(
					EmbeddedUndertowClientWebContainerTest.class
							.getClassLoader())
			.addServlet(
					servlet("MessageServlet", MessageServlet.class)
						.addInitParam("message", "Hello World")
						.addMapping(SERVLET_MAPPING)));
}

@Test
public void shouldBeAbleToInvokeServletInDeployedWebApp(
		@ArquillianResource URL url) throws Exception {

	String body = readAllAndClose(new URL(url, "myservlet").openStream());
		
	assertThat(body, is("Hello World"));
}

p. Note that in fact we are creating the deployment by using Fluent-API provided by @Undertow@.

h1. Non-blocking handler

But with @Undertow@ you can also write non-blocking handlers. For creating a non-blocking handler in @Undertow@ you simply must create a class that implements _HttpHandler_ interface and register it. For this reason @Arquillian-Container-Undertow@ provides a @Shrinkwrap@ resolver named _UndertowHttpHandlerArchive_.

div(filename). UndertowNoneBlockTest.java

bc(prettify)..
@Deployment(testable = false)
public static Archive<JavaArchive> createDeployment() {
	return ShrinkWrap.create(UndertowHttpHandlerArchive.class).from(new HttpHandler() {
           @Override
           public void handleRequest(final HttpServerExchange exchange) throws Exception {
               exchange.getResponseHeaders().put(Headers.CONTENT_TYPE, "text/plain");
               exchange.getResponseSender().send("Hello World");
           }
       });
}

@Test
public void shouldBeAbleToInvokeHandlers(@ArquillianResource URL url) throws Exception {

	String body = readAllAndClose(url.openStream());
		
	assertThat(body, is("Hello World"));

}

p. Note that we are using @HttpHandler@ interface provided by @Undertow@.

h1. Configuration

You can configure the bind address and port of @Undertow@. By default @Undertow@ is opened at _localhost:8080_.

div(filename). arquillian.xml

bc(prettify)..
<container qualifier="undertow" default="true">
	<configuration>
		<property name="bindAddress">localhost</property>
		<property name="bindHttpPort">9090</property> 
	</configuration>
</container>


p. Note that if port is set to -1, a random port between 1024 and 49151 is used.