---
date: 2016-11-14
author: lordofthejars
---

p(important). %*_Important note_*: This extension was called **Arquillian Pact** before version @1.0.0.Alpha5@, so you should use this name when pulling dependencies from Maven Central.%

p. Arquillian Pact is an extension for writing contract-driven tests providing you seamless integration with well known "Pact":https://docs.pact.io/ framework.

h3. What's new

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> **@@Pact@ annotation can be used on the class level**

p. You can use @@Pact@ annotation on the class level, so method that defines a pact fragment just need to return @PactFragment@ object. In case of setting this annotation both on the class and method level, the one defined on the method will take precedence.

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> **Pact Publisher properties configuration**

p. You can configure Pact Publisher properties using Java System properties or Environment variables using Arquillian syntax. Any property value can be set using Java system property @${name:defaultValue}@ or using environment variable @${env.name:defaultValue}@. @defaulValue@ will be used if referred property is not defined.

h3. Bug fixing

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> **Using @skipDeployment@ with WildFly Swarm returns a NPE**

p. Skipping deployment for WildFly Swarm was resulting with NPE. This is because our URL provider was conflicting with the one Swarm implements ("#44":https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-algeron/issues/44).

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> **Pact Publisher is not called when used with Gradle**

p. Pact Publisher is not called when used with Gradle due to a "bug in Gradle":https://issues.gradle.org/browse/GRADLE-3411. Since Publisher reacts to @AfterSuite@ and this event is not emitted when running in Gradle, we changed it to @AfterClass@. This has a slight impact on the performance as publishing pacts happens after each test execution instead of being triggered once in a bulk after the whole test suite execution ("#43":https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-algeron/issues/43).
