---
date: 2014-03-12
author: lfryc
---

This is a yet another bug fixing release. Since Warp is a young extension, there are many pain points and gaps. But these are successfully being filled with the help of our awesome community.

So what's in Alpha7 for you?

h3. Request and response objects mixed up

Thanks to Aslak, we have identified and fixed one of the most annoying bugs in Warp's history:

Objects in @RequestContext@ (such as @HttpServletRequest@, @HttpServletResponse@ and @FilterChain@) were previously identified by requests @#hashCode()@. But it turns up that requests' hash code is actually far from being unique across multiple requests. Now we have Warp requests identified by UUID as a request's attribute.

The issue was especially perceptible with Warp on the WildFly / Undertow container.

h3. Filter chain fixed

We have identified integration issues between @WarpFilter@ and frameworks that use custom filters such as "OCPSoft Rewrite":http://ocpsoft.org/rewrite/.

Warp is now the first filter in the chain of filters - it is configured to be prepended to other filters (still it may theoretically compete with other filters configured the same way).

It is also serving just @REQUEST@ and @ASYNC@ dispatchers (no @FORWARD@ as it would mean warping one request multiple times).

h3. Improved interoperability

Besides full compatibility with WildFly / EAP / JBoss AS, Warp now works just fine with TomEE 1.6 and Glassfish 4.0.

h3. What's next?

I think we have stabilized a fair amount of integration issues and we are close to fully passing the "interoperability tests":https://arquillian.ci.cloudbees.com/view/Extensions/job/Arquillian-Extension-Warp-Containers/.

But still there are some features that are missing, such as:

* verification of asynchronous requests
* support for Java EE 5 servers
** at this point I'm reluctant to add the support (it's just matter of manual configuration of @WarpFilter@ in @web.xml@ anyway)
* guide / documentation

Let us know in the discussion bellow what are the "must have" features and what are you struggling with that we should include before Beta release.
