---
author: aslakknutsen
---

h3(highlights). What's included in the Alpha4 release?

- <i class="icon-star"></i> Support for Boot2Docker! := 

If you are using boot2docker there are some parameters that depends on the installation of the boot2docker. For example boot2docker ip is not localhost and may change every time you start a new boot2docker instance. Also every time you start boot2docker copies required certificates to home directory of local machine.

Arquillian Cube offers some automatic mechanisms to use boot2docker in Cube.

Read more about it in the "documentation":https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-cube/tree/1.0.0.Alpha4#boot2docker.

=:

- <i class="icon-star"></i> Support for unix sockets :=

With the update to the latest version of @Docker-java@ we now support Docker hosts running on a unix socket.

=:

- <i class="icon-star"></i> Auto default *serverUri* if not configured := 

The @serverUri@ configuration option is where you define the Uri of Docker server. This configuration option is no longer mandatory and Arquillian Cube will attempt to auto set the values for the simplest use cases.

The default values are:

* @Linux@ unix:///var/run/docker.sock
* @Windows@ https://boot2docker:2376
* @MacOS@ https://boot2docker:2376

=:

- <i class="icon-star"></i> Fetch files from running container := 

Sometimes when the tests has finished and container is stopped you want to inspect some data like container console or getting a file from the container to manual inspecting. In these cases you can configure each container to copy console log or copy a file/s from container to local machine just before container is stopped.

bc(prettify).. tomcat_default:
  image: tutum/tomcat:7.0
  beforeStop:
    - copy:
      from: /test
      to: /tmp

    - log:
      to: /tmp/container.log

p. Read more about it in the "documentation":https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-cube/tree/1.0.0.Alpha4#before-stop-events.

=:

- <i class="icon-star"></i> Multi thread container auto start up := 

When you use the autoStartContainers option Arquillian Cube will sort and arrange for the Docker containers and their linked containers to be started in parallel in the correct order.

=:

- <i class="icon-star"></i> Support for Arquillian Standalone mode := 

Arquillian Cube can now be used without any Arquillian Container, via e.g. the arquillian-junit-standalone artifact. With this configuration you get access to all Cube features that are not related to the Java Container support, like @CubeController@ injection.
=:


