---
date: 2018-02-02
author: lordofthejars
---

p. We are delighted to announce a new version of Arquillian Cube 1.14.0 with a bunch of awesome features and bug fixes.

h3. What's new

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> **Istio  Support**

p. We have added Istio support so you can annotate your class with @@IstioResource@ to apply an Istio resource or if you prefer using programmatic way using @IstioAssistant@. To use it you need to import next dependency:

bc(prettify).. <dependency>
  <groupId>org.arquillian.cube</groupId>
  <artifactId>arquillian-cube-istio-kubernetes</artifactId>
  <version>${version}</version>
  <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>

p. Same dependency can be used either with Kubernetes or OpenShift.

p. You can see a full example at "Istio Example":https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-cube/tree/master/openshift/ftest-istio-openshift

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> **Allow OpenShift Template to use resources on classpath**

p. You can define OpenShift Templates as classpath resource using @classpath:@ protocol. @@Template(url = "classpath:hello-template.yaml")@

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> **Create OpenShift Template DSL for OpenShiftAssistant**

p. We have added a new method in @OpenShiftAssistant@ so you can apply OpenShift Templates programmatically.

bc(prettify).. openShiftAssistant
    .usingTemplate(getClass().getClassLoader().getResource("hello-template.yaml"))
    .parameter("RESPONSE", "Hello from Arquillian Template")
.deploy();

p. You can see a full example at "OpenShiftAssistant Template creation":https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-cube/tree/master/openshift/ftest-openshift-assistant-template

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> **Add @@Template@ annotation in test method scope**

p. Now you can use @@Template@ at method level, so the template is applied before executing the method and everything applied from that template removed after the test method.

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> **Simplify dependencies for standalone mode**

p. With this version we have added three new dependencies which simplifies the registration of Cube. Since almost all tests written in Cube are using @arquillian-standalone@ mode, instead of having to define both @arquillian-standalone@ and @arquillian-cube@, we created a starter dependency which register both.

p. In case of using Cube Docker:

bc(prettify).. <dependency>
    <groupId>org.arquillian.cube</groupId>
    <artifactId>arquillian-cube-docker-starter</artifactId>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>

p. In case of using Cube Kubernetes:

bc(prettify).. <dependency>
    <groupId>org.arquillian.cube</groupId>
    <artifactId>arquillian-cube-kubernetes-starter</artifactId>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>

p. In case of using Cube OpenShift:

bc(prettify).. <dependency>
    <groupId>org.arquillian.cube</groupId>
    <artifactId>arquillian-cube-openshift-starter</artifactId>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
