---
date: 2016-11-14
author: lordofthejars
---

p. Arquillian Pact is an extension for writing contract-driven tests which provides integration with "Pact":https://docs.pact.io/ framework.

h3. What's new

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> **@@Pact@ annotation can be used at class level**

p. You can use @@Pact@ annotation at class level, so methods that defines a pact fragment, just need to return @PactFragment@ class. Information will be picked from class level. In case of setting annotation at class and method level too, the one defined on the method will take precedence.

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> **Pact Publisher properties configuration**

p. You can configure Pact Publisher properties using Java System properties or Environment variables using Arquillian form:

p. Any property value can be set using Java system property `${name:defaultvalue}` or in case you want to set value from environment variable `${env.name:defaultvalue}`.

h3. Bug fixing

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> **Using skippingDeployment with Wildfly Swarm returns a NPE**

p.When using skipping Deployment feature with wildfly swarm makes test throw a NPE. This is because our URL provider extends from standard URL Resource provider and in case of skipDeployment to false it calls the standard provider. The problem is that swarm also implements its own URL provider.  This is fixed by taking into consideration the @Swarm URL provider@. "issue-44":https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-pact/issues/44

p. <i class="icon-star"></i> **Pact Publisher is not called when used with Gradle**

p. Pact Publisher is not called when used with Gradle due a bug in Gradle https://issues.gradle.org/browse/GRADLE-3411 . Since Publishers reacts to @AfterSuite@ and this event is not thrown when running in Gradle, we changed to @AfterClass@. This has an impact on the performance but we cannot do nothing for now.  "issue-43":https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-pact/issues/43
