---
date: 2013-11-04
author: lfryc
---
This release was focused on fixing issues and setting up container interoperability tests.

I’m really proud for all the fixes which you submitted and, as I promised, we release this Alpha to allow you grab and test those changes on a monthly basis.

h3. Container Compatibility

Thanks to the Arquillian Container adapters, it was pretty easy to setup container compatibility tests. You can see the results on "Jenkins CloudBees instance":https://arquillian.ci.cloudbees.com/view/Containers/job/Arquillian-Extension-Warp-Containers/

If you are missing support for your favorite container, speak up and we will add the desired configuration to the matrix!

As you can see from the results of compatibility tests, Warp and Warp JSF tests pass 100% on following containers:

* WildFly 8.0.0.Beta1
* JBoss AS 7.1.1.Final

Some tests have minor issues on TomEE 1.5.1 and unfortunately a number of tests fail on GlassFish 3.1. If any of these containers are of interest to you, please don't hesitate to lend us a helping hand getting these up to 100% as well. 

h3. Warp Extensions - REST and Portlets

Warp REST extension was released in its "Alpha1":/blog/2013/10/28/arquillian-extension-rest-1-0-0-Alpha1/ version recently. Thanks #{site.identities.lookup('jmnarloch').to_link} and #{site.identities.lookup('blabno').to_link} for their hard work with extending Warp cross-framework coverage.

#{site.identities.lookup('kenfinnigan').to_link} is also finalizing Warp "Portlet":/modules/portal-extension/ support - his efforts helped to refine Warp core in this release significantly.
