---
date: 2015-09-17
author: matousjobanek
---

The most significant change since the previous release is the postponing of the settings.xml loading.
Previously, when a user wanted to specify completely different settings.xml:

bc(prettify). Maven.configureResolver().fromFile("path/to/my_settings.xml");

p. During the call @configureResolver()@ the default settings.xml was immediately loaded and later on regenerated with the given @my_settings.xml@. This process could in some cases cause unexpected behavior (eg. the default settings.xml was corrupted).

In this new release, the loading has been postponed to the time when:

# the settings.xml is needed (eg. artifacts resolving)
or
# the resolver is configured with some specific settings.xml (eg. calling @fromFile("path/to/my_settings.xml")@)

So, there is no change for the user in the usage - it now just does what the user wants (ie. when some different settings.xml is specified, the default one is never loaded).


h3. Significant additions since the last final release 2.1.1:

<i class="icon-star"></i> Gradle importer
<i class="icon-star"></i> List resolution
<i class="icon-star"></i> MavenCoordinates as output
<i class="icon-star"></i> Better cooperation of MavenImporter and IDEs
<i class="icon-star"></i> Upgrade to Aether 1.0.0.v20140518
<i class="icon-star"></i> Upgrade to Maven 3.2.5

p. And many other bugfixes and feature requests. For more information see the release notes of the preceding alpha releases.

Big kudos to all contributors who helped to make this stable release.

We hope that you'll enjoy our new release and look forward to hear your feedback on the "community forums":#{site.project_space}.
