---
date: 2016-09-06
author: matousjobanek
---

This is the very first release of ShrinkWrap Resolver 3.0.0 release chain. During the next releases we are aiming to provide you a new API for @MavenImporter@, a possibility to resolve only the build metadata and much more!

This release doesn't provide any new features, it's mainly about important component updates and significant refactoring changes:

h3. Removed deprecated code from ShrinkWrap Resolver

This is the only change that significantly influences the implementation logic. ShrinkWrap Resolver has experienced rapid development and many changes on the field of API during last several releases. We decided to deprecate several features which we don't see important anymore (or we simply found better ways to do it). So we removed all the @@Deprecated@ classes and methods from previous releases.

h3. Maven 3.3.9 & JDK 1.7

We upgraded several components in this release, but the most important one is the upgrade of Maven to 3.3.9. Starting from Maven 3.3 you have to use at least JDK 1.7, which means that ShrinkWrap Resolver 3.0.0 won't run on any previous version of Java.

h3. Refactoring

Apart from the huge cleanup across all @pom.xml@ files and removal of deprecated classes/methods, project structure has undergone small structure change too. Gradle and Maven modules have been moved to dedicated directories. This technically doesn't influence the end user by any mean, because both the @groupId@ and the @artifactId@ stayed same.

We hope that you'll enjoy our new stuff and we are looking forward to your feedback.
