---
date: 2017-10-23
author: matousjobanek
---

h3. Highlights of this release

p. After one month of hard work we bring you the third release of Smart Testing tool!
Apart from several small improvements, component upgrades, and bug fixes, this release contains one killer feature and one convenient feature that will make your life easier.

h3. Configuration file

p. In previous releases, there was only one way of configuring the tool - through system properties. As we started introducing more options, we quickly realized that this is definitely not the most pleasant way of setting up the tool. From now on you can also use YAML configuration file.
The name of the file should be either @smart-testing.yml@ or @smart-testing.yaml@ and should be located in the root of the directory the build is executed from. Here's an example:

bc(prettify).. strategies: new, changed, affected
mode: ordering
applyTo: surefire
debug: true
report:
    enable: true
scm:
    range:
      head: HEAD
      tail: HEAD~2

p. We are keeping the  names as it is done for the system properties, just without the prefix @smart.testing@. This means that when you want to activate a set of strategies on a command line, then you should use the system property @smart.testing.strategies@. As you can see in the example, in the configuration file it is just @strategies@. Analogically for other parameters.

p(info). %The system properties are not going away. When both system properties and the configuration file are used, the values defined by system properties have the precedence. This can be helpful when your Smart Testing setup is shared in your scm but you want to have special settings for different stages of CI pipeline.%

h3. Autocorrection of mistyped strategy names

p. It might happen that you misspell a strategy when executing the build. For example:

bc(prettify).. $ mvn clean verify -Dsmart.testing=new,change,afected

p. It can take you a second or two to notice why this will lead to a failing build with some hints in the error message. To save time (and headaches) you can activate the autocorrection feature by setting @smart.testing.autocorrect=true@ on a command line or just @autocorrect: true@ in the config file. If it is set, the mistyped name is automatically corrected and the affected strategy is used. In this case @afected@ should be @affected@.

h3. What's next

We are working hard on the next release which will bring JUnit 5 support, a possibility of configuring custom strategies and many more cool features! Stay tuned!
