---
layout: guide
title: Integration Testing using Arquillian Cube
authors: [dipak-pawar]
tags: [openshift]
description: Learn How to write integration tests for openshift using Arquillian Cube.
guide_group: 2
guide_order: 4
---
[maven_download]http://maven.apache.org/download.html
[jdk_download]http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads

This guide introduces you to Arquillian Cube. After reading this guide, you’ll be able to:

* Write an Arquillian test which deploys your application on openshift cluster and verify your application.
* Execute an Integration Test in both Maven and IDE using arquillian configuration.

You'll learn how to write an integration test for Openshift using Arquillian Cube and it's configuration.

h3. Assumptions

This guide assumes you have openshift cluster up and running. If you don't please download and install "minishift":https://docs.openshift.org/latest/minishift/getting-started/installing.html. Also make sure you have Maven available, either in your command shell or your IDE(Integrated Development Environment). If you don't, please "download and install Maven now":maven_download. You'll also need "JDK(Java Development Kit) 1.8":jdk_download installed on your machine.

h3. Application Under Testing

In order to write an Arquillian Cube Integration Test, you need to have a application for it. Let's take a clone of sample "spring boot application":https://github.com/dipak-pawar/arquillian-cube-openshift-ftest which we are going to use in this guide.

bc(command).. git clone https://github.com/dipak-pawar/arquillian-cube-openshift-ftest

h3. Setting Dependencies and Plugin Configurations

Go ahead and open up the @pom.xml@ in your editor. Add following dependencies in pom.xml inside @<dependencies>@ section.

bc(prettify). <dependency>
  <groupId>org.arquillian.cube</groupId>
  <artifactId>arquillian-cube-openshift-starter</artifactId>   # <1>
  <version>${version.arquillian.cube}</version>
  <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.rest-assured</groupId>
  <artifactId>rest-assured</artifactId>   # <2>
  <version>${version.restassured}</version>
  <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
<dependency>
  <groupId>junit</groupId>
  <artifactId>junit</artifactId>   # <3>
  <version>${version.junit}</version>
  <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>

<1> Cube openshift dependency for standalone mode.
<2> Validate interesting things from response.
<3> Unit Testing Framework.


Add @Maven@ profile with "fabric8-maven-plugin":https://maven.fabric8.io/ configuration as follows:

bc(prettify). <profiles>
<profile>
  <id>openshift</id>
  <build>
    <plugins>
      <plugin>
        <groupId>io.fabric8</groupId>
        <artifactId>fabric8-maven-plugin</artifactId>
       <version>${version.fabric8.maven.plugin}</version>
        <executions>
          <execution>
            <goals>
              <goal>resource</goal>
              <goal>build</goal>
            </goals>
          </execution>
        </executions>
      </plugin>
    </plugins>
  </build>
</profile>
</profiles>

Add "Failsafe Plugin":http://maven.apache.org/surefire/maven-failsafe-plugin and it's configuration to run integration tests.

bc(prettify). <plugin>
  <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
  <artifactId>maven-failsafe-plugin</artifactId>
  <version>${version.failsafe.plugin}</version>
  <executions>
    <execution>
      <goals>
        <goal>integration-test</goal>
        <goal>verify</goal>
      </goals>
    </execution>
  </executions>
</plugin>


You can find entire @pom.xml@ "here":https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dipak-pawar/arquillian-cube-openshift-ftest/integration_test/pom.xml.

h3. Write Integration Test

Once all dependency and plugin configuration is set, you are ready to write Integration Test. In your IDE, create a new Java class named @OpenshiftIT@ in the @org.arquillian.cube@ package. Add following code in it.

div(filename). src/test/java/org/arquillian/cube/OpenshiftIT.java

bc(prettify).. package org.arquillian.cube;

import io.restassured.RestAssured;
import java.net.URL;
import org.arquillian.cube.openshift.impl.enricher.AwaitRoute;
import org.arquillian.cube.openshift.impl.enricher.RouteURL;
import org.jboss.arquillian.junit.Arquillian;
import org.junit.Before;
import org.junit.Test;
import org.junit.runner.RunWith;

import static io.restassured.RestAssured.when;
import static org.hamcrest.CoreMatchers.containsString;

@RunWith(Arquillian.class)
public class OpenshiftIT {

    @AwaitRoute
    @RouteURL("${app.name}")  #<1>
    private URL baseURL;

    @Before
    public void setup() throws Exception {
        RestAssured.baseURI = baseURL.toString();
    }

    @Test
    public void testGreetingEndpoint() {
            when()
                .get()
            .then()
                .statusCode(200)
                .body(containsString("Greetings from Spring Boot!"));
    }
}

p. <1> To Resolve @${app.name}@, you have to set @app.name@ either using system property or environment variable or arquillian.xml properties.

h3. Creating Arquillian Configuration for Integration Test

Below snippet shows how to set Arquillian configuration for your integration test.

div(filename). src/test/resources/arquillian.xml

bc(prettify). <arquillian xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="http://jboss.org/schema/arquillian"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://jboss.org/schema/arquillian http://jboss.org/schema/arquillian/arquillian_1_0.xsd">
  <extension qualifier="openshift">
    <property name="namespace.use.current">true</property> #<1>
    <property name="env.init.enabled">true</property> #<2>
    <property name="enableImageStreamDetection">false</property> #<3>
    <property name="app.name">arquillian-cube-openshift-ftest</property> #<4>
    <property name="cube.fmp.build.disable.for.mvn">true</property> #<5>
    <property name="cube.fmp.profiles">openshift</property> #<6>
  </extension>
</arquillian>

<1> Use current namespace for this test.
<2> Initialize environment (apply kubernetes resources).
<3> Disable detecting ImageStream resources located at @target/*-is.json@.
<4> Resolve @@RouteUrl@ expression used in injecting baseUrl for your application.
<5> Execute fabric8-maven-plugin goal @mvn package fabric8:build fabric8:resource -Dfabric8.namespace=${namespace_configured_to_use_in_test}@ during test execution from @IDE@.
<6> Enable profile with @fabric8-maven-plugin@ configuration.

h3. Run Integration Test

1. To Run integration test from Maven

bc(command).  mvn clean install -Popenshift

2. To run the same test from @IDE@ simply select @Run as JUnit Test@ option.

h3. What's Next

You can find full source code with application and integration test "here":https://github.com/dipak-pawar/arquillian-cube-openshift-ftest/tree/integration_test. Similarly, you can write integration tests for @Vert.x@, @Wildfly Swarm@ applications.

You can find more examples "here":https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-cube/tree/master/openshift.
