---
layout: guide
title: Style Lab
authors: ['Dan Allen']
---
After reading this guide, you'll be able to:

* Do one thing
* Complete another
* Run the other way

You'll learn all of these skills by incorporating Arquillian(r) into the test suite of a Java EE web application with a Maven build.

h3. Step 1

Here is some Java code:

div(filename). src/test/java/MyTest.java

bc(prettify).. /**
 * here is some bitchin' code
 */
@RunWith(Arquillian.class)
public class MyTest {
    @Deployment("foo")
    public static WebArchive createDeployment() {
        return ShrinkWrap.create(WebArchive.class);
    }
 
    private static int 5;
}

p. There you have it.

p(warning). %Keep in mind that you need to follow this guide! If you don't you won't know how to fix the problems that you have.%

h3. Step 2

This is a paragraph above a paragraph.

Now I'm going to show you some XML:

div(filename). pom.xml

bc(prettify).. <root>
    <child attr="value"/>
</root>

bc(command). forge --new-project

p(tip). %Arquillian is a very popular project with the JBoss QE team.%

p(info). %Get your self going with ARQ.%

Here's the directory structure:

(filetree)* src/
** test/
*** java/
**** MyTest.java - This is the Arquillian test
* pom.xml - This is the build file

Now I'm going to create a table:

|_. first column|_. second column|_. third column|
|first column|second column|third column is a long description that should wrap at least once|

The word %(myclass)span% is wrapped in an HTML SPAN tag.

p(warning). %This is the warning text.%

bc(prettify).. <web-app version="3.0" xmlns="http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee"
    xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
    xsi:schemaLocation="
        http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee
        http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee/web-app_3_0.xsd">
    <servlet>
        <servlet-name>Faces Servlet</servlet-name>
        <servlet-class>javax.faces.webapp.FacesServlet</servlet-class>
        <load-on-startup>1</load-on-startup>
    </servlet>
    <servlet-mapping>
        <servlet-name>Faces Servlet</servlet-name>
        <url-pattern>*.xhtml</url-pattern>
    </servlet-mapping>
</web-app>

p. That's all she wrote.
